The [[ikiwiki/directive/map]] directive sort by pagename. That looks kind of odd, when used together with show=title. I would expect it to sort by title then.

> This would be quite hard to fix. Map sorts the pages it displays by page
> name, which has the happy effect of making "foo/bar" come after "foo";
> which it *has* to do, so that it can be displayed as a child of the page
> it's located in. If sorting by title, that wouldn't hold. So, map
> would have to be effectively totally rewritten, to build up each group
> of child pages, and then re-sort those. --[[Joey]] 

>> Ok, you are right, that does would break the tree. This made me think that I do not
>> need to generate a tree for my particular use case just a list, so i thought i could use [[ikiwiki/directive/inline]] instead.
>> This created two new issues:
>>
>> 1. inline also does sort by pagename even when explicitly told to sort by title.
>>
>> 2. I cannot get inline to create a list when the htmltidy plugin is switched on. I have a template which is enclosed in an li tag, and i put the ul tag around the inline manually, but htmltidy breaks this. --martin

>>>> You might want to check if the [[plugins/contrib/report]] plugin solves your problem.  It can sort by title, among other things. --[[KathrynAndersen]]

>>>> I realise OP posted this 10 years ago, but here's how I do it: I generate <https://jmtd.net/log/all/> using
>>>> `inline` with `archive=yes` and a custom template which defines the LI element content for each post. I then include
>>>> these inlines (one per calendar year) via *another* template, which has the wrapping UL elements in it. These
>>>> templates are `.tmpl` files (and live in my custom `templatedir`, although that might not matter) which means
>>>> they avoid the htmlscrubber. *— [[Jon]], 2020-04-27* 

>> See also: [[todo/sort_parameter_for_map_plugin_and_directive]] --[[smcv]]
