ikiwiki 3.20190228 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * aggregate: Use LWPx::ParanoidAgent if available.
     Previously blogspam, openid and pinger used this module if available,
     but aggregate did not. This prevents server-side request forgery or
     local file disclosure, and mitigates denial of service when slow
     "tarpit" URLs are accessed.
     ([[!debcve CVE-2019-9187]])
   * blogspam, openid, pinger: Use a HTTP proxy if configured, even if
     LWPx::ParanoidAgent is installed.
     Previously, only aggregate would obey proxy configuration. If a proxy
     is used, the proxy (not ikiwiki) is responsible for preventing attacks
     like CVE-2019-9187.
   * aggregate, blogspam, openid, pinger: Do not access non-http, non-https
     URLs.
     Previously, these plugins would have allowed non-HTTP-based requests if
     LWPx::ParanoidAgent was not installed. Preventing file URIs avoids local
     file disclosure, and preventing other rarely-used URI schemes like
     gopher mitigates request forgery attacks.
   * aggregate, openid, pinger: Document LWPx::ParanoidAgent as strongly
     recommended.
     These plugins can request attacker-controlled URLs in some site
     configurations.
   * blogspam: Document LWPx::ParanoidAgent as desirable.
     This plugin doesn't request attacker-controlled URLs, so it's
     non-critical here.
   * blogspam, openid, pinger: Consistently use cookiejar if configured.
     Previously, these plugins would only obey this configuration if
     LWPx::ParanoidAgent was not installed, but this appears to have been
     unintended.
   * po: Always filter .po files.
     The po plugin in previous ikiwiki releases made the second and
     subsequent filter call per (page, destpage) pair into a no-op,
     apparently in an attempt to prevent *recursive* filtering (which as
     far as we can tell can't happen anyway), with the undesired effect
     of interpreting the raw .po file as page content (e.g. Markdown)
     if it was inlined into the same page twice, which is apparently
     something that tails.org does. Simplify this by deleting the code
     that prevented repeated filtering. Thanks, intrigeri
     (Closes: #[911356](http://bugs.debian.org/911356))"""]]

ikiwiki 3.20170111.1 was also released, backporting the LWP-related
changes from 3.20190228 to the branch used in Debian 9 'stretch'.
